---
title: "Identification of Candidate Be/X-Ray Binary Systems in the Small Magellanic Cloud"
collection: talks
type: "Poster"
permalink: /talks/2024-01-10-bexrbs
venue: "AAS 243"
date: 2024-01-10
location: "New Orleans, LA"
---

A poster about my initial project using NASA Swift data to study Be/X-ray Binaries. This work was presented to the nationwide astronomy community at AAS 243.

Talk Abstract
=====

Be X-Ray Binaries (BeXRBs) are a type of high-mass X-ray binary star system consisting of a main sequence OB star and a compact object, typically a neutron star. 
It has long been known that a large population of these energetic binaries exists in the Milky Way’s neighboring dwarf galaxy, the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC), due to a recent period of star formation. 
Since 2016, efforts have been made to identify the complete population of BeXRBs that exist in the SMC through the Swift SMC Survey (S-CUBED). 
S-CUBED’s weekly observation cadence has identified many new BeXRBs that exist within the SMC, but evidence suggests that the census has not yet been completed with many systems still escaping detection. 
A major challenge in identifying new BeXRBs is that they are transient objects at the high-energy wavelengths observed by the Neils Gehrels Swift Observatory, only visible during periods of active accretion onto the Neutron Star. 
In order to identify sources that may have been missed due to a long period of quiescence, it becomes necessary to identify the observational signatures that can be used to characterize BeXBs at lower-energy wavelengths. 
In this work, we present the results of an archival analysis of SMC sources that have been identified by S-CUBED. 
Using a combination of SED-fitting to VizieR archival measurements and multi-wavelength photometric analysis, we are able to identify several new candidate BeXRB systems that have previously been overlooked due to a lack of X-ray detections since the start of S-CUBED. 
Using these results, we demonstrate the use of ultraviolet through near-infrared observational data in identifying candidate BeXRBs when they cannot be identified using their X-ray emission. 
Our techniques are thus broadly applicable to the detection of candidate systems currently experiencing a long period of quiescence and can be applied to other populations of unidentified X-ray sources as the search for new BeXRBs progresses.

Link to Poster
=====

[iPoster](aas243-aas.ipostersessions.com/Default.aspx?s=EF-B3-5B-AF-BB-E0-61-DC-E0-D3-5C-4A-E1-A0-90-89)
