---
title: "Identification of Candidate Be/X-Ray Binaries in the Small Magellanic Cloud using Archival Swift SMC Survey Data"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-07-31_bexrbs
venue: "BeXRB 2024"
date: 2024-07-31
location: "Cape Town, South Africa"
---

A talk about my project using NASA Swift data to study Be/X-ray Binaries and the resulting discoveries from that work. This work was presented to the Be/X-ray Binary community at the field-specific BeXRB 2024 Workshop.

Talk Abstract
=====

It has long been known that the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC) contains an unusually large population of Be/X-ray Binaries (BeXRBs) due to a recent period of increased star formation in the nearby dwarf galaxy. 
Since 2016, efforts have been made to identify the complete population of BeXRBs that exist in the SMC through the Swift SMC Survey (S-CUBED). 
S-CUBED’s weekly observation cadence has identified several new BeXRBs that exist within the SMC, but evidence suggests that the census has not yet been completed with many systems still escaping detection. 
A major challenge in identifying new BeXRBs is their transient high-energy emission behavior. 
Many BeXRBs are only visible in the X-ray band during periods of active accretion onto the Neutron Star when the system goes into outburst, and they can spend many years in a quiescent state between outbursts. 
In order to identify sources that may have been missed due to a long period of quiescence, it becomes necessary to identify the observational signatures that can be used to characterize BeXRBs at lower-energy wavelengths. 
In this work, we present the results of an archival analysis of unidentified S-CUBED sources. 
Using a combination of SED-fitting to VizieR archival measurements and multi-wavelength photometric analysis, we are able to identify several new candidate BeXRB systems that have previously been overlooked due to a lack of X-ray detections since the start of S-CUBED. 
Using these results, we demonstrate the value of ultraviolet through near-infrared observational data in identifying candidate BeXRBs when they cannot be identified using their X-ray emission. 
We also present results from the discovery of a rare eclipsing BeXRB, SXP 182, that was first identified via our archival analysis method.


Link to Slides
=====

[Talk Slides](/files/Gaudin_BeXRB_2024.pdf)
