---
title: "An S-CUBED Perspective on Be/White Dwarf Binaries as Rare Soft X-ray Transients"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2025-01-22_iau_bewds
venue: "IAU Working Group on Active B Stars Monthly Seminar Series"
date: 2025-01-22
location: "State College, PA"
---

A talk about the work done by the Swift SMC Survey (S-CUBED) team to unveil the Soft X-ray properties of Be/White Dwarf binaries by studying outbursts of these rare systems since 2020.
This work was presented to the IAU Working Group on Active B Stars at the January 2025 edition of their monthly seminar series. 

Talk Abstract
=====

Be/White Dwarf Binaries (BeWDs) are a type of High Mass X-ray Binary system containing an active Be star and a white dwarf (WD) compact object. 
It has long been thought that these systems should occur much more commonly than their counterparts containing a neutron star. 
However, only a handful of BeWD systems are known to exist and little is known about their properties. 
The Neil Gehrels Swift Observatory has become a vital tool for improving our understanding of these rare systems, particularly of the population that exists in the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC). 
Over the past 8 years, the Swift SMC Survey (S-CUBED) has identified three previously-unknown BeWD systems via transient soft X-ray outbursts. 
In this talk, we will discuss the soft X-ray properties of BeWD systems using the example of the three sources detected by S-CUBED. 
We will use the three S-CUBED systems to illustrate the major differences that can exist between the properties of X-ray outbursts in BeWDs and discuss how these differing outbursts may be connected to important topics in high energy astrophysics such as Ultraluminous Supersoft sources. 
Through this discussion, we hope to demonstrate the importance of soft X-ray monitoring to the study of BeWDs both as a tool to unveil more of the peculiar properties of these systems and as the primary discovery method for new systems.


Link to Slides
=====

[Talk Slides](/files/SC BeWD Talk.pdf)
