---
title: "Investigating the Origin of UV Variability in Be/X-ray Binaries"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2025-10-14_uv_sims
venue: "HEAD 22"
date: 2025-10-14
location: "St. Louis, Missouri"
---

A talk about my project that seeks to investigate the origin of UV variability in Be/X-ray Binary systems by adding a simulated viscous decretion disk to models of O and B-type stars.

Talk Abstract
=====

The variability of Be/X-ray Binaries (BeXRBs) is a phenomenon that has been studied in great detail over the past few decades. 
While the photometric behavior of this common type of high mass X-ray binary is well-understood at optical and infrared (OIR) wavelengths thanks to projects such as the Optical Gravitational Lensing Experiment (OGLE), the ultraviolet (UV) band remains much more of a mystery. 
However, in recent years, our understanding of UV variability has begun to change. 
Through nearly a decade of monitoring the SMC, the Swift SMC Survey (S-CUBED) has been able to demonstrate conclusively that not only are many BeXRBs variable at UV wavelengths, but their photometric behavior in this regime is often correlated with the system’s OIR light curve. 
While S-CUBED has been able to show that BeXRBs are UV variable objects, little work has been done to provide a physically-motivated explanation for this variability. 
In this work, we investigate the physical origins of the UV variability in these systems by simulating BeXRB systems using a simplified viscous discretion disk (VDD) model. 
Using our simplified model, we generate simulated Swift and OGLE observations for BeXRBs, vary the physical parameters of our model, and compare results to long-term monitoring data. 
Through this investigation, we aim to demonstrate that the same changes in the physical properties of a decretion disk that lead to OIR variability are able to explain the UV variability phenomenon that has been so frequently observed by S-CUBED.


Link to Slides
=====

[Talk Slides](/files/HEAD_Talk.pdf)
